# Client-Server-Development

Creating maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs – When creating a program, it is vital to adhere to best coding practices as well as client expectations. Following OOP concepts using classes and objects, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction, and modularity all contribute to keeping code clean. This means the code will be maintainable and adaptable. Also, adhering to the KISS (keep it simple, stupid) concept helps prevent overcomplication, making the program easy to read. It’s important to pick object/class names that are simple and self-explanatory as well as thoroughly use inline comments to narrate each portion of code’s purpose and intentions. When you combine all these tactics, you will have a well written program which is easy to maintain, read, and adapt.

CRUD – In the AnimalShelter.py file, there is a CRUD method set up. This is the perfect example of maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs. You can use this file for other programs by making some minor changes in the initialization variables. This makes this file extremely adaptable,  readable, and maintainable. 

Approaching Problems – As a computer scientist, the best thing to do is get an overall understanding of the desired project. Once you have the overall picture, you can break it down into smaller fragments to tackle. When completing the requirements for the Grazioso Salvare project, it broke down into multiple steps. Task 1) Setting up MongoDB using Linux shell to access mongo shell. This included setting up environment variables and loading and retrieving a database file. Tests were run to verify documents loaded by creating an index on the key “breed” and perform an example query using this key via the explain function. Task 2) Ensuring the user has authentication to use the database by setting up admin and user accounts. An account called “aacuser2” was set up with read/write capabilities for the AAC database. This was then verified by using the db.runCommand({connectionStatus:1}). Task 3) Setup CRUD functionality for the database. This task was completed by creating a separate py file with OOP methodology. This includes a create, read, update, and delete method. A test was run to verify that each method worked correctly. Task 4) Create a table on a dashboard including a geolocation chart.  This uses your CRUD file to incorporate data into the dashboard. This is unfiltered material and gets fine tuned in the next task. Task 5) Add interactive components to the dashboard. Radio items were added to help filter table results by specifying the type of rescue dog in query. With these five tasks, the project was completed. 

This approach differed from my prior projects as it included two coding projects to work together. Using MongoDB combined with Pythong Dash was new territory and fun to watch the two combine to the completed product. In the future I will follow a similar strategy for client requests. Firstly, making sure to understand the entire project and projected client needs, then creating a game plan to complete this project by breaking it down into tasks. 

Computer scientists are the driver behind all technical applications. We assess the requirements of the client as well as find solutions to complete these requirements. We complete backend and frontend methods to make products pull together. We also find ways to organize things and keep the product visually appealing and chaos free. Computer scientists find a problem that can be simplified and they supply users with the tools to easily navigate these problems. In this project, it will now be easier for employees at Grazioso Salvare to search for potential dogs to be used in large databases. The user will only need to click a couple of buttons, and all of the requirements will instantly populate for them.  
